PLAN			Edward Zhuang 1/14/18

I plan to make a Breakout game, in which a user controls a paddle and hits a ball to try and break bricks. The player is granted three lives,
and a live is lost when the ball reaches the bottom of the screen. There will be at least three levels that increase in difficulty. The game will
also feature power ups and "power downs" (which is explained later in this text file) which come from bricks.

AN INTERESTING VARIANT

When looking at variants of Breakout, I found Worms to be the most interesting variant. I like the idea of having a
large variety of power-ups, as this can drastically change how the game is played. I would like to incorporate some 
of the same power ups as Worms (ex. faster paddle).  

LEVELS

In my Breakout program, I hope to develop a game with at least three levels. To make the different levels, I will 
change the velocity of the ball, making it faster in more difficult levels. In addition, I will include blocks that 
take multiple hits to break, and I will include different block formations. Here is a general description of the 
levels I plan to build.

Level 1: This will be a standard base level with many bricks that take one hit to break. The ball will also be relatively
slow.

Level 2: This will be a similar level, but there will be more space in between the bricks. Many of the bricks will take
two hits to break. The ball will go slightly faster.

Level 3: This level will have many bricks that require three hits to break. The ball will be even faster, and to not
make it impossibly difficult, the paddle speed will increase accordingly. 

POWER UPS

I will try to include several power ups, which will either drop randomly, or come from a specific block type. Here are 
some of the power ups I want to implement.
Extra Life: This power up will give the player another life.
Fast Paddle: This power up will make the paddle go faster for some time.
Power Ball: For a very short time, the ball will break any brick in one hit, and the ball will not bounce off bricks. 


CHEAT KEYS

Here are some cheat keys I want to implement.
L -> grants you another life. 
1, 2, 3 -> takes you to that specific level.
Q, W -> speeds up the ball/slows down the ball.
A -> allows for vertical movement of the paddle. 

SOMETHING EXTRA

To make my game a little more unique, I want to incorporate "power downs". Sometimes, a brick will drop a power down item.
If the player DOES NOT retrieve the power down item before it hits the bottom of the screen, then the power down will take
effect. A few examples of power down items are "smaller paddle" and "fast ball". I believe that this addition will make
the game more challenging, and force the player to make difficult choices. For example, should the player risk losing the
ball to avoid having a smaller paddle? 

 




